- [Instructor] To help us work with the methods on a list
I've added a new guest class to our application.
This class is going to store information
about the guests of the Landon hotel,
so things like their first name and last name.
You'll also notice a boolean,
loyalty program member on this class.
This boolean is used to indicate whether or not
a guest is a member of the loyalty program,
which can give them some perks.
So for example, in a minute,
we're going to talk about a check-in list.
The list is used to keep track of guests
as they arrive at the hotel.
So we know the order in which they should be checked in.
If a guest is a member of the loyalty program,
they are automatically placed ahead of non loyalty program
members on the check-in list, just one of the perks.
Now, you'll also notice I've added
a list of rooms to this class.
This list is going to store the rooms
that a guest prefers to stay in while at the hotel.
Now let's start working on our application.
To get started, I'm going to create a list of guests
and I'll name it check-in list.
And then for the implementation of the list,
I'm going to use an arry list.
Now, one of the things I'm going to do
is pass an integer as an argument into the constructor,
let's just say 100.
What this does is it declares the array list
with a larger initial capacity.
By default, the array list will have
an initial capacity of 10.
And if we're going to add a lot of items
into the array list, it will quickly need to resize.
So we can provide this larger initial capacity
in order to avoid that resizing, in the event,
we know we're going to store a lot of elements.
So let's just imagine the Landon Hotel's going to check in
a hundred guests today, we might want to go ahead
and up that initial capacity.
Okay, So we got our check-in list established just in time
because two guests have just arrived.
John has just walked into the lobby
and he was followed closely by Maria.
So we need to place John in the first position
in our check-in list, and then Maria, in the second.
Let's go ahead and we can do that
using the add method.
So I'll just go ahead, pass in John,
and then I'll do the same thing for Maria.
Okay, and then to see who is at what position in the list,
I've built a small utility method that we're going to use
to print that information to the console.
So there, we can see John at the first position
a nd Maria at the second.
Now our next guest has just arrived and that's Sonia,
she's a member of the loyalty program.
So she needs to be placed ahead of John and Maria
in the list, let's go ahead and do that.
So inside of our class, we can use the overloaded add method
on the list interface that accepts an index.
And since Maria needs to be at the first position,
I'll just provide a zero as the index in our first argument.
And then we just need to pass in Sonia,
as the second argument, that'll be the element
added at that position, and then I'll go ahead
and print the list so we can see what's going on.
Okay, so now Sonia is at the first position in the list.
Now having seen the benefits of the loyalty program,
convinces Maria to join.
So let's go ahead and add her into the program.
I'm going to get Maria from the list,
she's in the third position, so that's going to be index two
and then I can set her loyalty program member status
over to true.
Okay, now she's in the program.
Let's take a look at what we need to do.
So Maria's in the loyalty program,
so she needs to be ahead of John in the list.
But right after Maria joined, Siri walked into the lobby
and Siri's a loyalty program member.
So now both Maria and Siri need to be placed
ahead of John in the list,
in positions two and three respectively.
Let's go ahead and do that using a bulk insert operation.
Okay, so I'm going to use our check-in list
and then I'll invoke the add all method
and I'll use the overloaded form that accepts an index.
Now we're going to be placing this collection
in the list at the second position,
so that means we need to specify an index of one.
Now we need to pass in the collection
that we would like placed at that position.
And in the collection, we're going to provide two elements.
The first was Maria because she was in the loyalty program
prior to Siri's arrival.
And then the second will be Siri.
So what will happen is at index one or position two,
we'll insert Maria.
And then after that, we'll insert Siri.
We can see what that looks like by just going ahead
and printing our list to the console, okay.
So we knew Sonia would be in the first position.
Then we see Maria as expected followed by Siri
and then John who actually arrived first,
but is not a loyalty program member
is now in the last position in list.
Well, kind of, you can see we have an issue here
where we never removed Maria from the list,
and she's no longer at that spot.
Let's go ahead and we can take care of that
by removing the last element in the list.
So we can specify that index by getting the size
of the check-in list and then just subtracting one from it.
Okay.
Now, if we go ahead, we can print our list again,
and then we can see that last element,
the duplicate of Maria was removed.
Now at this point, John is extremely confused.
He has no idea what position in the list he's in,
so let's help him out and we'll tell him that.
So to do that, I can just use the check-in list
and I'll invoke the index of operation on the list.
Here I pass in John, and this will return the index
that John occupies within the list.
Let's go ahead, we can run this code.
And there you can see where indicating
that John is at the third index in the list.
Now, hopefully John knows how programmers count
if we tell him he's at the third index,
maybe it's best we just tell me it's in the fourth position.
So these examples show you how position based methods
found on the list, make it easier to manage
groups of objects in collections,
where we can leverage random access.